Q1:The patient complains of upper abdominal bloating, difficulty digesting, and a sense of gastric obstruction. They feel that bowel motility is poor, with little bowel sounds and a sensation of acid reflux and burning. They have been on PPI treatment for two months. What is the Western medical diagnosis?
Q2:The patient complains of upper abdominal bloating, difficulty digesting, and a sense of gastric obstruction. They feel that bowel motility is poor, with little bowel sounds and a sensation of acid reflux and burning. They have been on PPI treatment for two months. What is the TCM syndrome differentiation?
Q3:The patient complains of upper abdominal bloating, difficulty digesting, and a sense of gastric obstruction. They feel that bowel motility is poor, with little bowel sounds and a sensation of acid reflux and burning. They have been on PPI treatment for two months. Where is the disease located in Western and Traditional Chinese Medicine?
Q4:The patient had a cold 2-3 days ago, with slight fever in the afternoon and sore throat. They have not taken Western medicine, and currently, they only have a dry and itchy throat, right-sided nasal congestion, clear nasal discharge, and a slight cough with phlegm that cannot be expelled. Pulse diagnosis: slippery and wiry, with a floating double pulse. Tongue diagnosis: lips red, tongue slightly red with thin white coating. What is the TCM syndrome?
Q5:The patient had a cold 2-3 days ago, with slight fever in the afternoon and sore throat. They have not taken Western medicine, and currently, they only have a dry and itchy throat, right-sided nasal congestion, clear nasal discharge, and a slight cough with phlegm that cannot be expelled. Pulse diagnosis: slippery and wiry, with a floating double pulse. Tongue diagnosis: lips red, tongue slightly red with thin white coating. How is the disease described in TCM?
Q6:The patient had a cold 2-3 days ago, with slight fever in the afternoon and sore throat. They have not taken Western medicine, and currently, they only have a dry and itchy throat, right-sided nasal congestion, clear nasal discharge, and a slight cough with phlegm that cannot be expelled. Pulse diagnosis: slippery and wiry, with a floating double pulse. Tongue diagnosis: lips red, tongue slightly red with thin white coating. How does TCM prescribe treatment?
Q7:The patient has a tight cough, dry cough, no phlegm sounds, no wheezing, and no shortness of breath. Pulse diagnosis: slippery and wiry, with a floating double pulse. Tongue diagnosis: red tongue, thin white coating, little coating, and slightly less fluid. What is the location and syndrome in TCM?
Q8:The patient has a tight cough, dry cough, no phlegm sounds, no wheezing, and no shortness of breath. Pulse diagnosis: slippery and wiry, with a floating double pulse. Tongue diagnosis: red tongue, thin white coating, little coating, and slightly less fluid. How does TCM prescribe treatment?
Q9:The patient has a tight cough, dry cough, no phlegm sounds, no wheezing, and no shortness of breath. Pulse diagnosis: slippery and wiry, with a floating double pulse. Tongue diagnosis: red tongue, thin white coating, little coating, and slightly less fluid. What are the symptoms of liver yin deficiency?
Q10:In recent days, the patient has had a recurring cough, sore throat, and fatigue, accompanied by dryness in the throat (relieved by drinking water, approximately 1200ml/day). It is easier to wheeze during dynamic activities. Tongue diagnosis: light red tongue, yellow and greasy coating, and little fluid. What is the location and syndrome in TCM?
Q11:In recent days, the patient has had a recurring cough, sore throat, and fatigue, accompanied by dryness in the throat (relieved by drinking water, approximately 1200ml/day). It is easier to wheeze during dynamic activities. Tongue diagnosis: light red tongue, yellow and greasy coating, and little fluid. Why is there phlegm and cough, and how is it described in TCM?
Q12:In recent days, the patient has had a recurring cough, sore throat, and fatigue, accompanied by dryness in the throat (relieved by drinking water, approximately 1200ml/day). It is easier to wheeze during dynamic activities. Tongue diagnosis: light red tongue, yellow and greasy coating, and little fluid. What is meant by the term "lung defense disarray"?
Q13:Two months after a cold (COVID-19 negative), the patient experiences recurrent pain near the right forehead and bridge of the nose, described as mild stabbing pain. The Chinese medicine diagnosis is right-sided sinusitis (frontal sinus). They have been on antibiotics for a week and plan to stop. Pain worsens after exposure to wind or drinking cold beverages, while drinking warm water slightly alleviates it. Associated symptoms include clear, thin nasal discharge, post-nasal drip, nasal congestion, and white, thin nasal discharge with blood streaks. The patient has been using nasal spray since the age of 18 for about five years, with increased post-nasal drip in cold winter days. They are prone to anxiety and irritability, with right-sided shoulder and neck pain, while the left side is not painful. What is the TCM diagnosis?
Q14:Two months after a cold (COVID-19 negative), the patient experiences recurrent pain near the right forehead and bridge of the nose, described as mild stabbing pain. The Chinese medicine diagnosis is right-sided sinusitis (frontal sinus). They have been on antibiotics for a week and plan to stop. Pain worsens after exposure to wind or drinking cold beverages, while drinking warm water slightly alleviates it. Associated symptoms include clear, thin nasal discharge, post-nasal drip, nasal congestion, and white, thin nasal discharge with blood streaks. The patient has been using nasal spray since the age of 18 for about five years, with increased post-nasal drip in cold winter days. They are prone to anxiety and irritability, with right-sided shoulder and neck pain, while the left side is not painful. How does TCM prescribe treatment?
Q15:Two months after a cold (COVID-19 negative), the patient experiences recurrent pain near the right forehead and bridge of the nose, described as mild stabbing pain. The Chinese medicine diagnosis is right-sided sinusitis (frontal sinus). They have been on antibiotics for a week and plan to stop. Pain worsens after exposure to wind or drinking cold beverages, while drinking warm water slightly alleviates it. Associated symptoms include clear, thin nasal discharge, post-nasal drip, nasal congestion, and white, thin nasal discharge with blood streaks. The patient has been using nasal spray since the age of 18 for about five years, with increased post-nasal drip in cold winter days. They are prone to anxiety and irritability, with right-sided shoulder and neck pain, while the left side is not painful. Why does allergic rhinitis lead to recurrent pain near the forehead and bridge of the nose?